# README

## GEN Z Revolution

Nepal's Gen Z Revolution ignited on September 8, 2025, when a government-imposed
ban on 26 social media platforms sparked widespread outrage among youth. This
censorship, coupled with pervasive corruption and stark economic inequality, led
to mass protests across the country. Demonstrators, primarily from Generation Z,
targeted symbols of elite privilege, including luxury hotels and government
buildings. The unrest intensified on September 9, culminating in the storming
and subsequent burning of the Federal Parliament building in Kathmandu. The
government's violent crackdown resulted in at least 72 deaths and over 2,100
injuries. Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli resigned, and former Chief Justice
Sushila Karki was appointed as interim Prime Minister on September 12, 2025. The
movement, fueled by youth activism and digital mobilization, highlighted the
demand for transparency, accountability, and an end to systemic corruption.

## What's next?

Nepal's political landscape has undergone significant changes following the Gen
Z-led protests of September 2025. The resignation of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma
Oli and the appointment of Sushila Karki as the country's first female Prime
Minister marked a pivotal moment in the nation's history. Karki's interim
government, formed on September 12, 2025, has pledged to address the demands of
the youth-led movement, including anti-corruption measures, increased
transparency, and the restoration of democratic processes. Wikipedia

For the Gen Z movement to translate its momentum into lasting change, sustained
engagement and strategic action are essential. Continued advocacy for electoral
reforms, active participation in upcoming elections, and the establishment of
platforms for youth voices in policy-making are critical steps. Additionally,
fostering unity among diverse youth groups and collaborating with civil society
organizations can strengthen the movement's impact. By maintaining pressure on
the interim government and holding elected officials accountable, Gen Z can
ensure that the revolution leads to meaningful and enduring reforms in Nepal's
political and social systems.
